<h1>Stable Diffusion Wildcards</h1>

I recently discovered by chance that it is possible to use a structured wildcards YAML file to generate prompts for Stable Diffusion.

Wildcards are placeholders inside our prompts that get replaced automatically with words or phrases from a list.

A wildcards YAML file defines reusable lists of words or phrases that ComfyUI can randomly insert into prompts. Each entry is a key followed by a list of options. When a prompt uses a wildcard such as `__hair_color__`, ComfyUI picks one item from the matching list in the YAML. It is possible to refer multiple wildcards to create a meta-wildcard, for example `__hair_color__, __eye_color__, __face_shape__` to create a `__face__` wildcard.

Using this method, we can create a large number of prompts with a small number of wildcards.

This allows fast variation, style mixing, and structured prompt generation without writing many separate prompts.

I strarted creating a small YAML structure and used LLMs to generate prompts for a simple theme, then I refined the LLM system prompts manually.
After a few iterations and tests, I was able to generate a few themed wildcards (present in the `gkr-wildcards` folder).

Those wildcards are known to work with [ComfyUI](https://github.com/comfyanonymous/ComfyUI).

I used those with [ComfyUI-Nvidia-Docker](https://github.com/mmartial/ComfyUI-Nvidia-Docker) to generate images, placing the generated files in the `wildcards` folder of the ComfyUI installation within the `basedir/custom_nodes/comfyui-impact-pack/wildcards/` folder to be used with [ComfyUI-Impact-Pack](https://github.com/ltdrdata/ComfyUI-Impact-Pack).

# gkr-wildcards

This folder contains the YAML files that were generated using LLMs (after multiple iterations of refinement) but before I used an LLM to generate a generic template for the wildcards, as present in the `howto` folder.

The theme of each wildcard is in its name (e.g. `gkr-anime.yaml` is for anime prompts).
Each file follows a common structure, usually when using a wildcard file, we will be able to select the sub-wildcards we want to use in the prompt.
For example, `__gkr_japan/spotlight_kimono__` will be replaced by a random item from the `gkr_japan/spotlight_kimono` list.

The most useful keywords in the wildcard files are `combo`, `random` and `spotlight`, as they allow to create more complex prompts. 
- `combo` will build a structured-but-random prompt from some specific relevant to the combo sub-wildcards.
- `random` will build a random prompt from a list of sub-wildcards.
- `spotlight` provide a list of randomly generated prompts that were asked to produce the best results for a specific theme.

When using a workflow that supports them, we can type the base theme (e.g. `gkr_ttrpg`) and should see the list of available sub-wildcards, to select the most appropriate ones.

Combination of `combo` and `random` keywords from different themes allow to create various prompts, for example `__gkr_ttrpg/random_hero_portrait__, __gkr_cyberpunk/random_backgrounds__` **might** provide a good combination for a cyberpunk Tabletop RPG hero portrait 😊 

A single `negative_prompt` entry is also present in the files, it can be used to specify a theme specific negative prompts for workflows that support it.

# ComfyUI-Workflows

This folder contains some workflows used to generate images with ComfyUI, they are based on existing workflows on CivitAI by [DigitalPastel](https://civitai.com/user/DigitalPastel) and [AlexLai](https://civitai.com/user/AlexLai). 

See the [ComfyUI-Workflows/README.md](ComfyUI-Workflows/README.md) for more information.

# How To

This folder contains a method to generate wildcards YAML files using LLMs.
It was generated by using LLMs to analysis the common structure I had defined in the various themes and then using the LLMs to provide a "generic" YAML file that can be used to generate prompts for any theme, with embedded insuctions.

See the [howto/README.md](howto/README.md) for more information.
